Let me begin by sharing my favorite scripture. Ether 12:27 stands out to me because I learned something valuable about how to read this verse in context.

Most people seem to read it as that we should accept our weaknesses as things designed to make us humble, which humility will allow us to receive of the Grace which is offered by our Savior, and thus become inheritors of the Kingdom. However, my reading of the passage has a new light to share on the meaning of the verse.

To begin, I think it is important to note the differences in plurality versus singular tense for several components of the verse. If we note that the word "men" is used throughout as a plural word, then we know that the message applies to everyone together, and not to each person individually (although we should indeed apply it to ourselves on an individual basis). The next point is that the Savior is always referring to Himself in the singular using the pronouns "me" or "I", or the possessive "my". Therefore, in these components, the verse is always referring to something that the collective "men" can receive from the individual "I".

With this introduction, I can now share my insight regarding the word "weakness". Whenever I hear this verse used in talks, I always hear the word "weakness" (which is in the SINGULAR tense) exchanged for the word "weaknesses" (which is in the PLURAL tense). This exchange of a singular for a plural tense completely changes the meaning of this verse.

I will demonstrate my reading of this verse as I understand it:
27 And if men (plural) come unto me (singular) I will show unto them (plural) their weakness (singular - a collective weakness that is common to ALL mankind). I (singular) give unto men (plural) weakness (singular) that they may be humble (reason for the common weakness); and my grace (the enabling power if we become humble) is sufficient for all men that humble themselves (plural) before me (singular); for if they humble themselves before me, and have faith in me, THEN will I make WEAK THINGS (plural) become strong unto them.

The only time that "weaknesses" as a plural comes into focus is at the end of the verse, not at the beginning. So there is a single weakness common to all men which we must overcome before we can have strength to overcome the remainder of our weaknesses. When I bring this to the attention of my friends, they often think that the weakness is Pride, but I don't think it fits. My own observation would show an alternate condition which fits.

I hope to have the opportunity to discuss my observations with you further.

***********

Inasmuch as my coding skills are so old, and my confidence with them is translucent, I will defer from attempting to attempt to complete the coding challenge at this time. However, I will continue to work on this challenge beyond my 3 days deadline, as I have found this a wonderful learning opportunity.